---
title: "Running Locally"
order: 200
---

Convox can boot your application locally using Docker in an environment identical to production.

## Installing Docker

#### OS X

Install the [Docker Toolbox](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-toolbox) to get a local Docker environment.

#### Linux

Install Docker from your application's default package manager.

## Starting the Application

#### convox start

Use `convox start` to build and run your application locally.

    $ cd ~/example-app
    $ convox start
    RUNNING: docker build -t knexsfvjdc ~/example-app
    Sending build context to Docker daemon 8.192 kB
    Step 0 : FROM ruby:2.2.2
     ---> 9664620d4c2a
    Step 1 : EXPOSE 3000
     ---> Running in d2894bf8d64b
    ...
    web    | docker run -i --name example-app-web -p 5000:3000 procfile/web sh -c ruby web.rb
    web    | [2015-09-18 06:16:53] INFO  WEBrick 1.3.1
    web    | [2015-09-18 06:16:53] INFO  ruby 2.2.2 (2015-04-13) [x86_64-linux]
    web    | == Sinatra (v1.4.6) has taken the stage on 3000 for development with backup from WEBrick
    web    | [2015-09-18 06:16:53] INFO  WEBrick::HTTPServer#start: pid=7 port=3000

To exit `convox start` press `Ctrl+C`.

## Code sync

By default `convox start` will synchronize code between your local filesystem and the container filesystem. Any files or directories that appear in a `COPY` or `ADD` directive in your `Dockerfile` will be synced.

Syncing files from the host to the container enables you to develop live in your container. Edit files on your computer using your favorite editor, and Convox will sync them into the container instantly so that you can see the effects of the changes.

Files edited or created in the container will also get synced back into the host. This comes in handy for frameworks like Rails, for example, where lots of code is generated by the framework. You can run a generator inside the container and then see the files on your host where they can be edited, committed to version control, etc.

### Why not volumes?

Volumes are useful in many scenarios (see the Data persistence info below), but are not ideal for code syncing. Docker volumes use overlay mounts. That means the host directory is mounted over the corresponding container directory, making any files that previously existed exclusively on the container unavailable. This is problematic if you want to build useful files into a base Docker image that your app's Dockerfile inherits from.

### Disabling code sync

If you don't want to use code sync you can disable it by passing the `--sync=false` option to `convox start`.

## Data persistence

If your app uses a database, you'll find it useful to run a database container locally for development. To persist data for that container between starts, you can use Docker volumes to mount a host directory to the container's data directory. For example, if you're using the `convox/postgres` image, you can persist your data like this:

```yaml
database:
  image: convox/postgres
  ports:
    - 5432
  volumes:
    - /var/lib/postgresql/data
```
